{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 1.2: Intelligence & Consciousness\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  S2026\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55358 ?\u56800 ? Think:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i What is the difference between Intelligence, Consciousness, and Sentience? What about between Autonomous Systems, Artificial Intelligence, and Artificial General Intelligence? How can we become sufficiently precise in our language and thinking?}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Mitchell, Melanie. 2023. \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.12871v2"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Why AI Is Harder than We Think
}}}
\u8221"\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55356 ?\u57255 ? Listen:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Complexity} podcast, Season 2, Episode 1: \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.santafe.edu/culture/podcasts/ep-1-what-is-intelligence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
What is Intelligence?
}}}
\u8221"\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Lenharo, Mariana. 2023. \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-02120-8"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Decades-long bet on consciousness ends \u8212- and it\u8217's philosopher 1, neuroscientist 0
}}}
.\u8221" {\i Nature News}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Lenharo, Mariana. 2024. \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-04023-8"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
What should we do if AI becomes conscious? These scientists say it\u8217's time for a plan
}}}
.\u8221" {\i Nature News}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Marcus, Gary. 2025. \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://garymarcus.substack.com/p/sam-altman-thinks-that-agi-is-basically"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Sam Altman thinks that AGI is basically a solved problem. I don\u8217't. Here\u8217's why
}}}
.\u8221" Substack.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/consciousness/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Consciousness
}}}
.\u8221" {\i Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/artificial-intelligence/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Artificial Intelligence
}}}
.\u8221" {\i Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56541 ? Submit:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Discussion question to course chat\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Tip}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read\u8221", \u8220"\u55356 ?\u57255 ? Listen\u8221", and/or \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56570 ? Watch\u8221" items are required content for the day, and should be read/heard/watched before class on that day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse\u8221" items should be briefly looked at but do not need to be read deeply.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources\u8221" do not need to be looked at; they are there to serve, if useful, as further references for your debates, final projects, and general edification later.\sa180\par}
}
