{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 2.1: Emergence and Systems Thinking\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  S2026\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55358 ?\u56800 ? Think\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Is \u8220"intelligence\u8221" an emergent phenomenon? Or something different? What does it mean to be \u8220"intelligent\u8221"? What about consciousness? When do we start treating a system as more than the sum of its parts, and why?}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Goldstein, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mainline.brynmawr.edu/Courses/cs361/spring2008/Readings/Construct.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Emergence as a Construct: History and Issues
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Krakauer, \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JR93X7xK05o"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
What is Complexity?
}}}
\u8221" {\i Santa Fe Institute Lecture}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Schultz, \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.princeton.edu/news/2005/02/03/flocking-together-study-shows-how-animal-groups-find-their-way"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Flocking together: Study shows how animal groups find their way
}}}
\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Roose, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/16/technology/bing-chatbot-microsoft-chatgpt.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"A Conversation With Bing\u8217's Chatbot Left Me Deeply Unsettled\u8221"
}}}
 NYTimes.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Boden, \u8220"Autonomy and Artificiality\u8221" from {\i The Philosophy of Artificial Life}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Bedau, Mark. \u8220"Weak Emergence\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Johnson, \u8220"Eliminating the mystery from the concept of emergence\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Hofstadter, \u8220"G\u246 ?del, Escher, Bach: an Eternal Golden Braid\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Holland, John. {\i Emergence}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wolfram, {\i A New Kind of Science}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Simon, Herb. {\i Sciences of the Artificial}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"Emergent Properties\u8221", {\i Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56541 ? Submit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Discussion question to course chat\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Tip}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read\u8221", \u8220"\u55356 ?\u57255 ? Listen\u8221", and/or \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56570 ? Watch\u8221" items are required content for the day, and should be read/heard/watched before class on that day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse\u8221" items should be briefly looked at but do not need to be read deeply.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources\u8221" do not need to be looked at; they are there to serve, if useful, as further references for your debates, final projects, and general edification later.\sa180\par}
}
