{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 2.2 - Evaluating Intelligence\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  S2026\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55358 ?\u56800 ? Think:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i How can we, as fellow humans, assess whether or not a non-human \u8220"intelligence\u8221" is actually\u8230 ? intelligent? What kind of guidelines and rules of thumb should we form? What makes something an autonomous system, an intelligent system, a general intelligence system, or even a superintelligence?}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Searle, {\b \u8220"Minds, Brains, and Programs\u8221"} ({\i aka} \u8220"The Chinese Room\u8221" argument)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56570 ? Watch:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u8220"Artificial Intelligence & Personhood\u8221"}, {\i Crash Course Philosophy} #23\line {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39EdqUbj92U"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39EdqUbj92U
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55356 ?\u57255 ? Listen:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Complexity} podcast, Season 2, Episode 5: {\b \u8220"How do we assess intelligence?\u8221"}\line {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.santafe.edu/culture/podcasts/episode-5-how-do-we-assess-intelligence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://www.santafe.edu/culture/podcasts/episode-5-how-do-we-assess-intelligence
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Mitchell, {\b \u8220"The Turing Test and our shifting conceptions of intelligence\u8221"}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Turing, {\b \u8220"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\u8221"} ({\i aka} \u8220"The Turing Test\u8221")\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Lycan, {\b \u8220"Robots and Minds\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Dennett, {\b \u8220"True Believers: The Intentional Strategy and Why it Works\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Boden, {\b \u8220"Escaping from the Chinese Room\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u8220"The Chinese Room Argument\u8221"}, {\i Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u8220"The Turing Test\u8221"}, {\i Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56541 ? Submit:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Discussion question to course chat\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Tip}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read}, {\b \u55356 ?\u57255 ? Listen}, and/or {\b \u55357 ?\u56570 ? Watch} items are required content for the day and should be completed before class.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse} items should be skimmed but do not need deep reading unless you want to.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources} are optional references for debates, final projects, and future use.\sa180\par}
}
