{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 3.1 - Embodied Intelligence, Agency, and Responsibility\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  S2026\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55358 ?\u56800 ? Think:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i How important is it for intelligence to be \u8220"embodied\u8221" in a physical agent that interacts with the \u8220"real\u8221" world, as opposed to digital representations of the world through text, images, video, and the internet? Does embodiment (or lack thereof) change how we think of learning?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i What about responsibility? Are AI agents responsible for their behavior? Should they be, legally? Should the companies that make them? Does whether agents are embodied change how we think about this responsibility?}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55356 ?\u57255 ? Listen:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Complexity} podcast, Season 2, Episode 4: {\b \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.santafe.edu/culture/podcasts/episode-4-babies-vs-machines"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Babies vs.\u160 ?Machines
}}}
\u8221"}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Mitchell, et al.\u160 ?\u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02649"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Fully Autonomous AI Agents Should Not be Developed
}}}
\u8221"\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Liu and Wu, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cacm.acm.org/blogcacm/a-brief-history-of-embodied-artificial-intelligence-and-its-future-outlook/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"A Brief History of Embodied Artificial Intelligence, and its Outlook\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.motortrend.com/news/nhtsa-tesla-autopilot-investigation-shutoff-crash"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"NHTSA Finds Teslas Deactivated Autopilot Seconds Before Crashes\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Ziegler, Bart. 2023. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.wsj.com/articles/cars-self-driving-when-c6ae4fdc"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"When Will Cars Be Fully Self Driving?\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.brookings.edu/articles/the-evolving-safety-and-policy-challenges-of-self-driving-cars/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"The evolving safety and policy challenges of self-driving cars\u8221"
}}}
, Brookings\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Ganesh, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41599-020-00646-0"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"The ironies of autonomy\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Chan et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.10114"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"Infrastructure for AI Agents\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Geistfeld, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2931168"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"A Roadmap for Autonomous Vehicles: State Tort Liability, Automobile Insurance, and Federal Safety Regulation\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab NHTSA, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nhtsa.gov/vehicle-safety/automated-vehicles-safety"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"Automated Vehicles for Safety\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Google, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ai.google/static/documents/ai-responsibility-update-published-february-2025.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
AI Responsibility Report
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/doing-allowing/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"Doing vs Allowing Harm\u8221"
}}}
 (especially the Trolley Problem section), {\i Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Himmelreich, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10677-018-9896-4"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Never Mind the Trolley: The Ethics of Autonomous Vehicles in Mundane Situations\u8221"
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56541 ? Submit:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Discussion question to course chat\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Tip}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read}, {\b \u55356 ?\u57255 ? Listen}, and/or {\b \u55357 ?\u56570 ? Watch} items are required content for the day and should be completed before class.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse} items should be skimmed but do not need deep reading unless you want to.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b \u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources} are optional references for debates, final projects, and future use.\sa180\par}
}
