{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 5.1 - Energy\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  S2026\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55358 ?\u56800 ? Think:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i How do we manage the massive energy demands of AI?}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Chen, 2025. \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-00616-z"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
How much energy will AI really consume? The good, the bad, and the unknown
}}}
\u8221" {\i Nature}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Stover, 2024. \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://thebulletin.org/2024/12/ai-goes-nuclear/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
AI goes nuclear
}}}
\u8221" {\i The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Ars Technica, \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arstechnica.com/ai/2025/03/can-we-make-ai-less-power-hungry-these-researchers-are-working-on-it/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Can we make AI less power-hungry? These researchers are working on it.
}}}
\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The Economist, \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.economist.com/graphic-detail/2022/07/19/how-safe-is-nuclear-energy"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
How safe is nuclear energy?
}}}
\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Mandler, 2024. \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.npr.org/2024/09/20/nx-s1-5120581/three-mile-island-nuclear-power-plant-microsoft-ai"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Three Mile Island nuclear plant will reopen to power Microsoft data centers
}}}
\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Erdenesanaa, 2024. \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/10/climate/ai-could-soon-need-as-much-electricity-as-an-entire-country.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
A.I. Could Soon Need as Much Electricity as an Entire Country
}}}
\u8221" {\i NYTimes}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Goldman Sachs, \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/articles/is-nuclear-energy-the-answer-to-ai-data-centers-power-consumption"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Is nuclear energy the answer to AI data centers\u8217' power consumption?
}}}
\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Bacquero, \u8220"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cacm.acm.org/blogcacm/the-energy-footprint-of-humans-and-large-language-models/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
The Energy Footprint of Humans and Large Language Models
}}}
\u8221"\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Crawford, 2022. {\i Atlas of AI: Power, Politics, and the Planetary Costs of Artificial Intelligence.} Yale.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 \u55357 ?\u56541 ? Submit:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Discussion question to course chat\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Tip}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56534 ? Read\u8221", \u8220"\u55356 ?\u57255 ? Listen\u8221", and/or \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56570 ? Watch\u8221" items are required content for the day, and should be read/heard/watched before class on that day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55356 ?\u57104 ? Browse\u8221" items should be briefly looked at but do not need to be read deeply unless you want to\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"\u55357 ?\u56538 ? Additional Resources\u8221" do not need to be looked at; they are there to serve, if useful, as further references for your debates, final projects, and general edification later.\sa180\par}
}
